feat: switch functionality (#658)
KILTprotocol/kilt-node: pallets/pallet-asset-switch/README.md

# Asset switch pallet

> The asset switch pallet introduces the possibility for the chain local currency to be switched 1:1 with a remote asset at a remote destination, according to the provided configuration, using XCM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The asset switch pallet allows for switching the chain local currency 1:1 with a remote asset at a remote destination, according to the provided configuration, and using XCM.
```

> This is possible via the creation of a *switch pair*, which contains information about the identifier of the remote asset (e.g., its `MultiLocation`), the remote location on which the asset lives (and with which XCM communication takes place), the circulating supply of the remote asset which can be switched back for the local currency, and additional information relevant for the XCM communication, which are explained more in depth later on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is possible by creating a *switch pair*, which contains information about the remote asset's identifier (e.g., its MultiLocation`), the remote location where the asset lives (and with which XCM communication takes place), the circulating supply of the remote asset, which can be switched back for the local currency, and additional information relevant for the XCM communication, which is explained more in-depth later on.
```

> ## In a gist

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Summary
```

The pallet lets users on the source chain lock `N` tokens of the chain's native currency into a switch pair specific account, to receive `N` remote assets on the configured remote location, which are transferred to them from the source chain's sovereign account at destination.

> Then, the chain, which i

Reviewer: ?

```suggestion
```

```

The asset switch pallet is available in the KILT node release 1.13.0 and later.

## Configure the pallet

The pallet can be added one or more times to the runtime.

For multiple deployments of the same pallet (e.g., to bridge the local currency to different remote assets), pass runtime configuration to the pallet's `Config` trait.

```rust,ignore
pub type SwitchPool1 = pallet_asset_switch::Instance1;
impl pallet_asset_switch::Config<SwitchPool1> for Runtime {
	// Config
}

pub type SwitchPool2 = pallet_asset_switch::Instance2;
impl pallet_asset_switch::Config<SwitchPool2> for Runtime {
	// Config
}
```

If a single instance is required, then simply use the default instance:

```rust
impl pallet_asset_switch::Config for Runtime {
    // Config
}
```

## The `Config` trait

As the pallet is generic over the runtime specifics, the `Config` trait requires the following configuration parameters passed to it:

- `type AccountIdConverter: TryConvert<Self::AccountId, Junction>`: Because the `AccountId` type can be anything in the runtime, the converter is responsible for converting such a `AccountId` into a `Junction`, which is then used for some XCM processing.

> - `type AssetTransactor: TransactAsset`: This component is used when charging the extrinsic submitter with the XCM fees that the chain will pay at destination. For instance, if the transfer on the remote chain will cost 0.1 DOTs, the `AssetTransactor` might deduct 0.1 DOTs from the user's previously topped up balance on the source chain (more details below).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `type AssetTransactor: TransactAsset`: This component is used when charging the extrinsic submitter with the XCM fees that the chain will pay at the remote chain. For instance, if the transfer on the remote chain will cost 0.1 DOTs, the `AssetTransactor` might deduct 0.1 DOTs from the user's previously topped up balance on the source chain (more details below).
```

Again, if this is correct.

> - `type FeeOrigin: EnsureOrigin<Self::RuntimeOrigin>`: The origin that can update the XCM fee to be paid for the transfer on destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `type FeeOrigin: EnsureOrigin<Self::RuntimeOrigin>`: The origin that can update the XCM fee to be paid for the transfer on the remote chain.
```

Again, if appropriate.

- `type LocalCurrency: MutateFungible<Self::AccountId>`: The chain's local currency.
- `type PauseOrigin: EnsureOrigin<Self::RuntimeOrigin>`: The origin that can pause a switch pair, e.g., if a vulnerability is found.
- `type RuntimeEvent: From<Event<Self, I>> + IsType<<Self as frame_system::Config>::RuntimeEvent>`: The aggregate `Event` type.
- `type SubmitterOrigin: EnsureOrigin<Self::RuntimeOrigin, Success = Self::AccountId>`: The origin that can call the `switch` extrinsic and perform the switch.

> - `type SwitchHooks: SwitchHooks<Self, I>`: Any additional runtime-specific logic that can be injected both before and after local tokens are exchanged for the remote assets, and before and after the remote assets are being converted into local tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `type SwitchHooks: SwitchHooks<Self, I>`: Any additional runtime-specific logic that can be injected both before and after local tokens are exchanged for the remote assets, and before and after the remote assets are converted into local tokens.
```

- `type SwitchOrigin: EnsureOrigin<Self::RuntimeOrigin>`: The origin that can set, resume, and delete a switch pair.

> - `type XcmRouter: SendXcm`: The component responsible for routing XCM messages to the switch pair remote location to perform the remote asset transfer from the chain's sovereign account to the specified beneficiary.

Reviewer: Is this the component, or does the comment relate to an XCM component?

Author: This is the component.

## Storage

The pallet has a single `SwitchPair` storage value that contains a `Option<SwitchPairInfo>`.
If unset, no switch pair is configured hence no switch can happen.
When set and its status is `Running`, switches are enabled in both directions.

## Events

The pallet generates the following events:

- `SwitchPairCreated`: when a new switch pair is created by the required origin, e.g., governance.
- `SwitchPairRemoved`: when a switch pair is removed by the root origin.
- `SwitchPairResumed`: when a switch pair has (re-)enabled local to remote asset switches.
- `SwitchPairPaused`: when a switch pair has been paused.
- `SwitchPairFeeUpdated`: when the XCM fee for the switch transfer has been updated.
- `LocalToRemoteSwitchExecuted`: when a switch of some local tokens for the remote asset has taken place.
- `RemoteToLocalSwitchExecuted`: when a switch of some remote assets for the local tokens has taken place.

## Calls

> 1. `pub fn set_switch_pair(origin: OriginFor<T>, reserve_location: Box<VersionedMultiLocation>, remote_asset_id: Box<VersionedAssetId>, remote_fee: Box<VersionedMultiAsset>, total_issuance: u128, circulating_supply: u128) -> DispatchResult`: Set a new switch pair between the local currency and the specified `remote_asset_id` on the `reserve_location`. The specified `total_issuance` includes both the `circulating_supply` (i.e., the remote asset amount that the chain does not control on the `reserve_location`) and the locked supply under the control of the chain's sovereign account on the `reserve_location`. For this reason, the value of `total_issuance` must be at least as large as `circulating_supply`. It is possible for `circulating_supply` to be `0`, in which case it means this chain controls all of the `total_issuance` of the remote asset, which can be obtained by locking a corresponding amount of local tokens via the `switch` call below. Furthermore, the pallet calculates the account that will hold the local tokens locked in exchange for remote tokens: this account is based on the pallet runtime name as returned by the `PalletInfoAccess` trait, and the value of `remote_asset_id`. The generated account must already have a balance of at least `circulating_supply`, ensuring that there are enough local tokens locked to satisfy all the requests to exchange the remote asset for local tokens. The balance of such account can be increased with a simple transfer, after obtaining the to-be-created switch pair pool account by interacting with the [asset-switch runtime API][asset-switch-runtime-api]: this requirement is bypassed with the `force_set_switch_pair` call. Only `SwitchOrigin` can call this, and in most cases it will most likely be a governance-based origin such as the one provided by referenda or collectives with high privileges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `pub fn set_switch_pair(origin: OriginFor<T>, reserve_location: Box<VersionedMultiLocation>, remote_asset_id: Box<VersionedAssetId>, remote_fee: Box<VersionedMultiAsset>, total_issuance: u128, circulating_supply: u128) -> DispatchResult`: Set a new switch pair between the local currency and the specified `remote_asset_id` on the `reserve_location`. The specified `total_issuance` includes both the `circulating_supply` (i.e., the remote asset amount that the chain does not control on the `reserve_location`) and the locked supply under the control of the chain's sovereign account on the `reserve_location`. For this reason, the value of `total_issuance` must be at least as large as `circulating_supply`. It is possible for `circulating_supply` to be `0`, in which case it means this chain controls all of the `total_issuance` of the remote asset, which can be obtained by locking a corresponding amount of local tokens via the `switch` call below.

Furthermore, the pallet calculates the account that will hold the local tokens locked in exchange for remote tokens. This account is based on the pallet runtime name as returned by the `PalletInfoAccess` trait and the value of `remote_asset_id`. The generated account must already have a balance of at least `circulating_supply`, ensuring enough local tokens are locked to satisfy all requests to exchange the remote asset for local tokens. The balance of such an account can be increased with a simple transfer after obtaining the to-be-created switch pair pool account by interacting with the [asset-switch runtime API][asset-switch-runtime-api].

This requirement can be bypassed with the `force_set_switch_pair` call. Only `SwitchOrigin` can call this, and in most cases it will most likely be a governance-based origin such as the one provided by referenda or collectives with high privileges.
```

Author: This is a bullet point, I don't think we can add whitespaces without breaking the list, can we?

Reviewer: Ah yes, it needs to be intended, though to be fair, this is very long for a bullet point, but a bit of whitespace will help.

Reviewer: I think that's right, GitHub makes it hard to suggest indents, if not, I'll just submit the change directly.

Author: Ok I'll merge this suggestion in the PR I opened.

> 2. `pub fn force_set_switch_pair(origin: OriginFor<T>, reserve_location: Box<VersionedMultiLocation>, remote_asset_id: Box<VersionedAssetId>, remote_fee: Box<VersionedMultiAsset>, total_issuance: u128, circulating_supply: u128) -> DispatchResult`: It does the same as the `set_switch_pair`, but it skips the check over the switch pair pool account balance, and it requires the `root` origin for the call to be dispatched.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. `pub fn force_set_switch_pair(origin: OriginFor<T>, reserve_location: Box<VersionedMultiLocation>, remote_asset_id: Box<VersionedAssetId>, remote_fee: Box<VersionedMultiAsset>, total_issuance: u128, circulating_supply: u128) -> DispatchResult`: The same as the `set_switch_pair`, but skips the check over the switch pair pool account balance, and requires the `root` origin for the call to be dispatched.
```

> 3. `pub fn force_unset_switch_pair(origin: OriginFor<T>) -> DispatchResult`: Forcibly remove a previously-stored switch pair. This operation can only be accomplished by the `root` origin. **Any intermediate state, such as local tokens locked in the switch pair pool or remote assets that are not switchable anymore for local tokens must be taken care of with subsequent governance operations.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. `pub fn force_unset_switch_pair(origin: OriginFor<T>) -> DispatchResult`: Forcibly remove a previously-stored switch pair. This operation can only be called by the `root` origin.

**Any intermediate state, such as local tokens locked in the switch pair pool or remote assets that are not switchable anymore for local tokens, must be taken care of with subsequent governance operations.**
```

4. `pub fn pause_switch_pair(origin: OriginFor<T>) -> DispatchResult`: Allows the `PauseOrigin` to immediately pause switches in both directions.
5. `pub fn resume_switch_pair(origin: OriginFor<T>) -> DispatchResult`: Allows the `SwitchOrigin` to resume switches in both directions.

> 6. `pub fn update_remote_fee(origin: OriginFor<T>, new: Box<VersionedMultiAsset>) -> DispatchResult`: Allows the `FeeOrigin` to update the required XCM fee to execute the transfer of remote asset on the reserve location from the chain's sovereign account to the beneficiary specified in the `switch` operation. For example, if the cost of sending an XCM message containing a `TransferAsset` instruction from the source chain to AssetHub (reserve location) changes from 0.1 DOTs to 0.2 DOTs, the fee will need to be updated accordingly to avoid transfers to fail on AssetHub, leaving the whole system in an inconsistent state. Since the pallet refunds any unused assets on the reserve location to the account initiating the switch on the source chain, it is not a big issue to overestimate this value here, since no funds will be burnt or unfairly taken from the user during the switch process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. `pub fn update_remote_fee(origin: OriginFor<T>, new: Box<VersionedMultiAsset>) -> DispatchResult`: Allows the `FeeOrigin` to update the required XCM fee to execute the transfer of remote asset on the reserve location from the chain's sovereign account to the beneficiary specified in the `switch` operation.

For example, if the cost of sending an XCM message containing a `TransferAsset` instruction from the source chain to AssetHub (reserve location) changes from 0.1 DOTs to 0.2 DOTs, the fee will need to be updated accordingly to avoid transfers failing on AssetHub, leaving the whole system in an inconsistent state. Since the pallet refunds any unused assets on the reserve location to the account initiating the switch on the source chain, it is not a big issue to overestimate this value here since no funds will be burnt or unfairly taken from the user during the switch process.
```

	2. No switch pair is set or the switch pair is currently not allowing switches.
	3. There are not enough locked remote assets on the `reserve_location` to cover the switch request. E.g., if the chain sovereign account on the `reserve_location` only controls `10` remote assets, users can only switch up to `10` local tokens. Once the limit is reached, there needs to be someone performing the reverse operation (remote -> local switch) to free up some remote tokens.
	4. The switch pair `reserve_location` is not reachable from the source chain, because the configured `XcmRouter` returns an error (e.g., there is no XCM channel between the two chains).
	5. The configured `SwitchHooks` returns an error in either the `pre-` or the `post-` switch checks.
	6. The user does not have enough assets to pay for the required remote XCM fees as specified in the switch pair info and as returned by the configured `AssetTransactor`.

## XCM components

> Because the switch functionality relies on XCM, the pallet provides a few XCM components that are to be included in a runtime in order to enable the whole set of interactions between the source chain and the configured remote reserve location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the switch functionality relies on XCM, the pallet provides a few XCM components that should be included in a runtime to enable the whole set of interactions between the source chain and the configured remote reserve location.
```

# Asset switch pallet

> The asset switch pallet allows for switching the chain local currency 1:1 with a remote asset at a remote destination, according to the provided configuration, and using XCM.

Author: Yes, that's true, but 99% of the cases it will be local currency. I would not make things even more confusing, especially in the first line.

> This is possible by creating a *switch pair*, which contains information about the remote asset's identifier (e.g., its MultiLocation`), the remote location where the asset lives (and with which XCM communication takes place), the circulating supply of the remote asset, which can be switched back for the local currency, and additional information relevant for the XCM communication, which is explained more in-depth later on.

Author: https://github.com/KILTprotocol/kilt-node/pull/692/commits/c93fd69b8a5e68eb5269c1bf5bec3c1bb5141739

* The sovereign account of the source chain at destination owns the remote assets in the amount that is specified when the switch pair is created. The validation of this requirement is delegated to the source chain governance in the act leading to the creation of the switch pair, as the source chain itself has currently no means of doing that.
* Similarly, the pallet has currently no way to verify that a transfer of remote tokens from the chain sovereign account to the **specified** beneficiary has been completed successfully on the remote location, hence it takes an optimistic approach given that all the verifiable preconditions for the switch are verified on the source chain, i.e., the chain from which the switch originates. Any unexpected issues in the transfer on the remote location will most likely require intervention of the source chain governance to re-balance the state and make it consistent again.

## Add the pallet to the runtime

Add the following line to the runtime `Cargo.toml` dependencies section:

```toml

> pallet-asset-switch = {git = "https://github.com/KILTprotocol/kilt-node.git", branch = "release-1.13.0"}

Author: https://github.com/KILTprotocol/kilt-node/pull/692/commits/d8b810f0792970fa0ac8b19d8b5c159830b31410
